README.md, before:

# TGCP (Terminal GCP Explorer)

TGCP is a terminal-based user interface for observing and managing Google Cloud Platform resources, inspired by tools like K9s and TAWS. It provides a fast, keyboard-driven experience for DevOps engineers and Cloud Administrators.

![Banner](assets/banner.txt)

## Features (MVP)

- **🚀 Fast Navigation**: Instant switching between services and views using keyboard shortcuts.
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Uses Application Default Credentials (ADC) for seamless and secure login.
- **🔀 Project Switcher**: Instant cross-project switching via Command Palette.
- **⚡ Smart Caching**: Built-in caching layer to reduce API calls and improve responsiveness.
- **☁️ Supported Services**:
    - **Compute Engine (GCE)**: List instances, view details, start/stop instances. **Smart SSH** integration (splits Tmux pane automatically).
    - **Cloud SQL**: Monitor database instances, check status and configurations, start/stop.
    - **IAM**: Audit service accounts and policies.
    - **Cloud Run**: List services, view revisions, and explore **Cloud Functions** in a dedicated tab.
    - **Cloud Storage (GCS)**: Browse buckets and navigate objects with a built-in **Object Browser** (read-only).
    - **BigQuery**: Inspect datasets, drill down into tables, and view schemas.
- **🔍 Filtering**: Real-time fuzzy filtering for all resource lists.
- **🛡️ Safety First**: Confirmation dialogs for all state-changing actions.

## Recommended Font

For the best experience, we recommend using [Google Sans Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Google+Sans+Mono) or a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) to ensure all glyphs and borders render correctly.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher
- Google Cloud SDK (`gcloud`) installed

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yogirk/tgcp.git
cd tgcp
go build -o tgcp ./cmd/tgcp
```

## Setup & Authentication

TGCP uses **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** to authenticate with Google Cloud.

1.  **Login with gcloud**:
    ```bash
    gcloud auth application-default login
    ```
2.  **Verify Project**:
    Ensure your default project is set in gcloud:
    ```bash
    gcloud config set project [YOUR_PROJECT_ID]
    ```

## Usage

Run the application:
```bash
./tgcp
```

### Configuration

TGCP supports a configuration file at `~/.tgcprc` (YAML format).

**Example `~/.tgcprc`:**
```yaml
project: "my-default-project"
ui:
  sidebar_visible: true
```

### CLI Options

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `--project <ID>` | Override the default project ID for this session. |
| `--debug` | Enable verbose logging to `~/.tgcp/debug.log`. |
| `--version` | Display version information. |
| `--help` | Show help message. |

### Keybindings

#### Global
| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `q` | Quit application or Go Back |
| `?` | Toggle Help overlay |
| `:` | Open Command Palette |
| `/` | Filter current list |
| `Ctrl+c` | Force Quit |

#### Navigation
| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `↑` / `k` | Move selection up |
| `↓` / `j` | Move selection down |
| `Enter` | Select item / View Details |
| `Tab` | Toggle Sidebar visibility |

#### Service Actions
| Key | Action | Context |
|-----|--------|---------|
| `r` | **Refresh** data (bypassing cache) | Global |
| `s` | **Start** resource | GCE, Cloud SQL |
| `x` | **Stop** resource | GCE, Cloud SQL |
| `h` | **SSH** into instance | GCE |
| `[` / `]` | **Switch Tabs** | Cloud Run (Services/Functions) |
| `Enter` | **Drill Down** / **Open** | GCS Object Browser, BigQuery |
| `Esc` | **Go Back** / **Up Level** | GCS Object Browser, BigQuery |

## Troubleshooting

### "Authentication Error" Screen
**Cause**: The application cannot find valid credentials.
**Fix**: Run `gcloud auth application-default login`. If that fails, ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable is pointing to a valid key file.

### "No Project ID"
**Cause**: The ADC credentials didn't contain a quota project, and no project was specified in flags.
**Fix**: Run `gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID>` or run tgcp with `./tgcp --project <PROJECT_ID>`.

### API Errors (403, etc.)
**Cause**: Your credentials might not have permissions for the specific service (e.g., Compute Viewer).
**Fix**: Ensure your user account or service account has the necessary IAM roles.

## Development

- **Run in debug mode**: `go run ./cmd/tgcp --debug`
- **View logs**: `tail -f ~/.tgcp/debug.log`
- **Run tests**: `go test ./...`

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add GKE service with k9s integration
- Implement Kubernetes Engine (GKE) service to view clusters and node pools
- Add k9s launcher with 'K' keybinding for quick cluster access
- Update service template with improved state management and action handling
- Add GKE to home menu and sidebar navigation
- Add cyan accent color for GKE UI styling
- Update README with GKE feature documentation

README.md, after:

# TGCP (Terminal GCP Explorer)

TGCP is a terminal-based user interface for observing and managing Google Cloud Platform resources, inspired by tools like K9s and TAWS. It provides a fast, keyboard-driven experience for DevOps engineers and Cloud Administrators.

![Banner](assets/banner.txt)

## Features (MVP)

- **🚀 Fast Navigation**: Instant switching between services and views using keyboard shortcuts.
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Uses Application Default Credentials (ADC) for seamless and secure login.
- **🔀 Project Switcher**: Instant cross-project switching via Command Palette.
- **⚡ Smart Caching**: Built-in caching layer to reduce API calls and improve responsiveness.
- **☁️ Supported Services**:
    - **Compute Engine (GCE)**: List instances, view details, start/stop instances. **Smart SSH** integration (splits Tmux pane automatically).
    - **Cloud SQL**: Monitor database instances, check status and configurations, start/stop.
    - **IAM**: Audit service accounts and policies.
    - **Kubernetes Engine (GKE)**: View Clusters and Node Pools. Launch **k9s** instantly with `K`.
    - **Cloud Run**: List services, view revisions, and explore **Cloud Functions** in a dedicated tab.
    - **Cloud Storage (GCS)**: Browse buckets and navigate objects with a built-in **Object Browser** (read-only).
    - **BigQuery**: Inspect datasets, drill down into tables, and view schemas.
- **🔍 Filtering**: Real-time fuzzy filtering for all resource lists.
- **🛡️ Safety First**: Confirmation dialogs for all state-changing actions.

## Recommended Font

For the best experience, we recommend using [Google Sans Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Google+Sans+Mono) or a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/) to ensure all glyphs and borders render correctly.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher
- Google Cloud SDK (`gcloud`) installed

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yogirk/tgcp.git
cd tgcp
go build -o tgcp ./cmd/tgcp
```

## Setup & Authentication

TGCP uses **Application Default Credentials (ADC)** to authenticate with Google Cloud.

1.  **Login with gcloud**:
    ```bash
    gcloud auth application-default login
    ```
2.  **Verify Project**:
    Ensure your default project is set in gcloud:
    ```bash
    gcloud config set project [YOUR_PROJECT_ID]
    ```

## Usage

Run the application:
```bash
./tgcp
```

### Configuration

TGCP supports a configuration file at `~/.tgcprc` (YAML format).

**Example `~/.tgcprc`:**
```yaml
project: "my-default-project"
ui:
  sidebar_visible: true
```

### CLI Options

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `--project <ID>` | Override the default project ID for this session. |
| `--debug` | Enable verbose logging to `~/.tgcp/debug.log`. |
| `--version` | Display version information. |
| `--help` | Show help message. |

### Keybindings

#### Global
| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `q` | Quit application or Go Back |
| `?` | Toggle Help overlay |
| `:` | Open Command Palette |
| `/` | Filter current list |
| `Ctrl+c` | Force Quit |

#### Navigation
| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `↑` / `k` | Move selection up |
| `↓` / `j` | Move selection down |
| `Enter` | Select item / View Details |
| `Tab` | Toggle Sidebar visibility |

#### Service Actions
| Key | Action | Context |
|-----|--------|---------|
| `r` | **Refresh** data (bypassing cache) | Global |
| `s` | **Start** resource | GCE, Cloud SQL |
| `x` | **Stop** resource | GCE, Cloud SQL |
| `h` | **SSH** into instance | GCE |
| `K` | **Launch k9s** | GKE |
| `[` / `]` | **Switch Tabs** | Cloud Run (Services/Functions) |
| `Enter` | **Drill Down** / **Open** | GCS Object Browser, BigQuery |
| `Esc` | **Go Back** / **Up Level** | GCS Object Browser, BigQuery |

## Troubleshooting

### "Authentication Error" Screen
**Cause**: The application cannot find valid credentials.
**Fix**: Run `gcloud auth application-default login`. If that fails, ensure `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable is pointing to a valid key file.

### "No Project ID"
**Cause**: The ADC credentials didn't contain a quota project, and no project was specified in flags.
**Fix**: Run `gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID>` or run tgcp with `./tgcp --project <PROJECT_ID>`.

### API Errors (403, etc.)
**Cause**: Your credentials might not have permissions for the specific service (e.g., Compute Viewer).
**Fix**: Ensure your user account or service account has the necessary IAM roles.

## Development

- **Run in debug mode**: `go run ./cmd/tgcp --debug`
- **View logs**: `tail -f ~/.tgcp/debug.log`
- **Run tests**: `go test ./...`

## License

MIT
